---
title: "Working with Flutter on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)"
date: 2019-12-19T16:08:40+05:30
draft: false
comments: true
tags: [wsl, flutter, windows, linux, setup]
---

Most developers prefer to use Linux or MacOS for development and the major reason in simple terms is the **terminal** and the ease they provide with their development environments. Windows has always been avoided by most developers (as far as I see in the community) but recently, after the announcement of Windows terminal and the increasing popularity of Windows Subsytem for Linux, many people have taken a stab at developing with Windows without having to install a Linux distro or use a Virtual Machine or in extreme cases, buy Macbooks.

Recently, Flutter has been gaining extreme popularity and everyone is ditching native development to see what Flutter has to offer. I personally like flutter because how easy, fast and beautiful it is. It helps design UIs easily for the algorithms/backend I am working on.

Coming to the main topic, it is pretty easy to setup flutter for any platform be it Windows, Linux or MacOS. But what I wasn't able to find anywhere was how to use flutter with WSL. Anyone can switch to powershell/cmd for using flutter though, but I like things at one place and below are the steps for the workaound:

1. **Install Flutter in Windows**: This is pretty straight forward and one can do this easily by following this [link](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install/Windows), you'll also want to install Android Studio for the SDK in Windows itself. Finally, just make sure flutter works in powershell/cmd.

2. **WSL**: I assume that you have WSL already setup, if not, you can follow [this](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/Windows/wsl/install-win10).

But now, if you'll try to use Flutter in WSL bash, you will see an error like below.

<!-- ```bash
user@user:~/flutterproject$ flutter run
/mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 5: $'\r': command not found
/mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 6: $'\r': command not found
/mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 14: $'\r': command not found
: invalid optionnt/flutter/bin/flutter: line 15: set: -
set: usage: set [-abefhkmnptuvxBCHP] [-o option-name] [--] [arg ...]
/mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 16: $'\r': command not found
': not a valid identifierr/bin/flutter: line 17: unset: `CDPATH
/mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 18: $'\r': command not found
/mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 19: syntax error near unexpected token `$'{\r''
'mnt/c/Development/flutter/bin/flutter: line 19: `function follow_links() {
``` -->

the work around to this is, intead of running `flutter run`, use `CMD.exe /c flutter run`, but this too has a limitation that you can only run app repositories stored in Windows, not in WSL server, which is still a problem.

3. **Solution**: I created couple of commands to help me move to Windows, without having to `cd` it out. And another to run the compatible flutter command without having to write `CMD.exe /c flutter run` again and again. Below are the commands and you can use them by pasting them in your `.bashrc` file and rebooting the terminal.

```bash
alias winpro='cd /mnt/<DIRECTORY IN WINDOWS YOU WANT>'

flutter() {
    command CMD.exe /c flutter $@
}
```

Now you can run any flutter command in WSL and going to Windows is simple, just type `winpro` (or whatever you like).
